---
layout: post
title: "Gas Engine Powered Robot Project"
date: 2016-06-06 13:32:20 +0300
description: As a summer project, I wired the electrical systems and helped modify a gas engine to mount to a go-kart chassis.  # Add post description (optional)
img: gas-robot-main.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [RESEARCH]
---

## Purpose
As a fun summer project on the robotics team, we worked on designing and building a gas engine powered robot. This project got us working on things outside of our normal fields, such as rebuilding an engine, and using parts from differnet generations of control systems and getting them to work together to control this robot. We wanted to do this project using as small a budget as possible while integrating as many normal robot components as possible, without having the weight and size contraints of normal FRC robots.

## Parts
* Honda GX160 Engine
* ECOTRONS Small Engine Fuel Injection Conversion Kit
* Custom Exhaust Kit
* Donated Go Kart Frame
* New Wheels, Bearings, and Axles
* Linear Actuator for Steering
* Hydrualic Brake Kit
* 3 Solid State Relays
* Normal FRC RoboRIO and Motor Speed Controllers

## Details
The engine we decided to use for this, the Honda GX160, comes as a 4 stroke, 5.5 horsepower, 160 CC carbuerated engine. As part of our project, we decide to convert the engine from old fashion carbuerated to modern fuel injection technology. In this process I helped disassemble the engine, swap out the internal springs, replace the sealing gaskets and put together the new throttle mechanism required for fuel injection. After this, we soldered together a custom wiring harness for the new control computer and oxygen, air pressure, and exhuast sensors. In order to be able to control the engine with our traditional robotics control system we implemented a series of relays that can enable and start the engine as well as small servo motor to move the throttle. For the steering system we built a linear actuator with built in limit switches and wired them into our standard robot motor controller. One problem we had to overcome is that some of the robotics components were older than others, and couldn't all communicate on the same CAN network together. To fix this we manually added the needed resistor value into the circuit to trick them into thinking they are all connected properly.

Later that summer, I gave a presentation about our Gas Engine robot at the annual FIRST Robotics Summit meeting at CNU which can be found [here](http://wbenb.github.io/assets/kart-presentation.pdf).